docs/spec: document `v2beta2` API (#828)
fluxcd/helm-controller: docs/spec/v2beta2/helmreleases.md

  Valid values are `Skip`, `Create` and `CreateReplace`. Default is `None`.
  Refer to [Custom Resource Definition lifecycle](#controlling-the-lifecycle-of-custom-resource-definitions)
  for more information.
- `.cleanupOnFail` (Optional): Allows deletion of new resources created during
  the upgrade of the release when it fails. Defaults to `false`.
- `.disableHooks` (Optional): Prevents [chart hooks](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts_hooks/)
  from running during the upgrade of the release. Defaults to `false`.
- `.disableOpenAPIValidation` (Optional): Prevents Helm from validating the
  rendered templates against the Kubernetes OpenAPI Schema. Defaults to `false`.
- `.disableWait` (Optional): Disables waiting for resources to be ready after
  upgrading the release. Defaults to `false`.
- `.disableWaitForJobs` (Optional): Disables waiting for any Jobs to complete
  after upgrading the release. Defaults to `false`.
- `.force` (Optional): Forces resource updates through a replacement strategy.
  Defaults to `false`.
- `.preserveValues` (Optional): Instructs Helm to re-use the values from the
  last release while merging in overrides from [values](#values). Setting

>   this flag makes the HelmRelease non-declarative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  this flag makes the HelmRelease non-declarative. Defaults to `false`.
```

  from running during the rollback of the release. Defaults to `false`.
- `.disableWait` (Optional): Disables waiting for resources to be ready after
  rolling back the release. Defaults to `false`.
- `.disableWaitForJobs` (Optional): Disables waiting for any Jobs to complete
  after rolling back the release. Defaults to `false`.
- `.force` (Optional): Forces resource updates through a replacement strategy.
  Defaults to `false`.
- `.recreate` (Optional): Performs Pod restarts if applicable. Defaults to
  `false`.

### Uninstall configuration

`.spec.uninstall` is an optional field to specify the configuration values for
a [Helm uninstall action](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_uninstall/). This
configuration applies to the [install remediation](#install-remediation), and
when the [upgrade remediation strategy](#upgrade-remediation) is set to
`uninstall`.

The field offers the following subfields:

- `.timeout` (Optional): The time to wait for any individual Kubernetes
  operation (like Jobs for hooks) during the uninstalltion of the release.
  Defaults to the [global timeout value](#timeout).

> - `.deletionPropagation` (Optional):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.deletionPropagation` (Optional): The deletion propagation policy when a Helm
     uninstall is performed. Valid values are `background`, `foreground` and `orphan`.
     Defaults to `background`.
```

>  `.disableHooks` (Optional): Prevents [chart hooks](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts_hooks/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `.disableHooks` (Optional): Prevents [chart hooks](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts_hooks/)
```

  from running during the uninstallation of the release. Defaults to `false`.
- `.disableWait` (Optional): Disables waiting for resources to be deleted after
  uninstalling the release. Defaults to `false`.
- `.keepHistory` (Optional): Instructs Helm to remove all associated resources
  and mark the release as deleted, but to retain the release history. Defaults
  to `false`.

### Drift detection

`.spec.driftDetection` is an optional field to enable the detection (and
correction) of cluster-state drift compared to the manifest from the Helm
storage.

> When `.spec.driftDetection.mode` is set to `warn` or `enabled`, and the
> desired state of the HelmRelease is in-sync with the Helm release object in
> the storage. The controller will compare the manifest from the Helm storage
> with the current state of the cluster using a
> [server-side dry-run apply](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `.spec.driftDetection.mode` is set to `warn` or `enabled` and the
desired state of the HelmRelease is in-sync with the Helm release object in
the storage, the controller will compare the manifest from the Helm storage
with the current state of the cluster using a
[server-side dry-run apply](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/).
```

If this comparison detects a drift (either due to a resource being created
or modified during the dry-run), the controller will emit a Kubernetes Event
with a short summary of the detected changes. In addition, a more extensive
[JSON Patch](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6902) summary is logged
to the controller logs (with `--log-level=debug`).

#### Drift correction

> When `.spec.driftDetection.mode` is set to `enabled`, the controller will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, when `.spec.driftDetection.mode` is set to `enabled`, the controller will
```
maybe?

attempt to correct the drift by creating and patching the resources based on
the server-side dry-run result.

At the end of the correction attempt, it will emit a Kubernetes Event with a
summary of the changes it made and any failures it encountered. In case of a
failure, it will continue to detect and correct drift until the desired state
has been reached, or a new Helm action is triggered (due to e.g. a change to
the spec).

#### Ignore rules

`.spec.driftDetection.ignore` is an optional field to provide
[JSON Pointers](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6901) to ignore while
detecting and correcting drift. This can for example be easeful when Horizontal
Pod Autoscaling is enabled for a Deployment, or when a Helm chart has hooks
which mutate a resource.

```yaml
spec:
  driftDetection:
    mode: enabled
    ignore:
      - paths: ["/spec/replicas"]
```

> **Note:** It is possible to achieve a likewise behavior as using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** It is possible to replicate the behavior of using
```
maybe?

Author: I feel that "replication" signals a 1:1 copy of behavior, which isn't really the case. It's "kind of" the same.

  together with the `.spec.releaseName` and `.spec.values` to confirm if the
  Helm release exists and is up-to-date.
- If the Helm release does not exist, is not up-to-date, or has not observed to
  be made by the controller, then the controller will install or upgrade the
  release. If this fails, it is allowed to retry the operation a number of
  times while requeueing between attempts, as defined by the respective
  [remediation configurations](#configuring-failure-handling).
- If the [Helm tests](#test-configuration) for the release have not been run
  before for this release, the HelmRelease will run them.
- When the Helm release in storage is up-to-date, the controller will check if
  the release in the cluster has drifted from the desired state, as defined by
  the [drift detection configuration](#drift-detection). If it has, the
  controller will [correct the drift](#drift-correction) by re-applying the
  desired state.
- The controller will repeat the above steps at the interval defined by
  `.spec.interval`, or when the configuration changes in a way that affects the
  desired state of the Helm release (e.g. a new chart version or values).

> You can run this example by saving the manifest into `podinfo.yaml`.

Author: A manifest can contain one or more objects, "manifests" would imply two files.

[upgrading CRDs](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_best_practices/custom_resource_definitions/#some-caveats-and-explanations):

> There is no support at this time for upgrading or deleting CRDs using Helm.
> This was an explicit decision after much community discussion due to the
> danger for unintentional data loss. Furthermore, there is currently no
> community consensus around how to handle CRDs and their lifecycle. As this
> evolves, Helm will add support for those use cases.

If you write your own Helm charts, you can work around this limitation by
putting your CRDs into the templates instead of the `crds/` directory, or by
factoring them out into a separate Helm chart as suggested by the [official Helm
documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_best_practices/custom_resource_definitions/#method-2-separate-charts).

However, if you use a third-party Helm chart that installs CRDs, not being able
to upgrade the CRDs via HelmRelease objects might become a cumbersome limitation
within your GitOps workflow. Therefore, Flux allows you to opt in to upgrading
CRDs by setting the `.crds` policy in the [`.spec.install`](#install-configuration)

> and [`.spec.upgrade`](#upgrade-configuration) configurations.

Reviewer 2: Good point. Well, it's not urgent. I can see if I can find a different wording some other time.

---
# ... unrelated Cluster API objects omitted for brevity ...
---
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: kube-prometheus-stack
  namespace: capi-stage
spec:
  kubeConfig:
    secretRef:
      name: stage-kubeconfig # Cluster API creates this for the matching Cluster
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: prometheus
      version: ">=4.0.0 <5.0.0"
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: prometheus-community
  install:
    remediation:
      retries: -1
```

The Cluster and HelmRelease can be created at the same time as long as the
[install remediation configuration](#install-remediation) is set to a
forgiving number of `.retries`. The HelmRelease will then eventually succeed
in installing the Helm chart once the cluster is available.

If you want to target clusters created by other means than Cluster-API, you can
create a Service Account with the necessary permissions on the target cluster,
generate a KubeConfig for that account, and then create a Secret on the cluster
where helm-controller is running. For example:

```shell
kubectl -n default create secret generic prod-kubeconfig \
    --from-file=value.yaml=./kubeconfig
```

> ### Triggering a reconcile

Author: This is the same title as used in all the other docs.

> ### Triggering a reconcile

Reviewer 2: I was afraid this to be the case. It's still better. Your choice. 🙂

> ### Triggering a reconcile

Author: Given it used to be in the kubebuilder book (https://book-v1.book.kubebuilder.io/basics/what_is_a_controller.html#replicaset-creation), I prefer to maintain a uniform title style and change this across all controllers for next release.

To manually tell the helm-controller to reconcile a HelmRelease outside the
[specified interval window](#interval), it can be annotated with
`reconcile.fluxcd.io/requestedAt: <arbitrary value>`.

Annotating the resource queues the HelmRelease for reconciliation if the
`<arbitrary-value>` differs from the last value the controller acted on, as
reported in `.status.lastHandledReconcileAt`.

Using `kubectl`:

```sh
kubectl annotate --field-manager=flux-client-side-apply --overwrite helmrelease/<helmrelease-name> reconcile.fluxcd.io/requestedAt="$(date +%s)"
```

Using `flux`:

```sh
flux reconcile helmrelease <helmrelease-name>
```

> ### Forcing a release

Author: Why? The reason may vary, they can simply want to re-attempt a failed upgrade but they may also have a reason to retrigger the release due to e.g. chart hooks.

> ### Forcing a release

Reviewer 2: Someone reading this might ask "why should I ever do this?" because they might not know about the edge cases where this would be necessary. My point is to mention at least an example edge case that makes this necessary.

> ### Forcing a release

Author: One use-case for this is already described in "configuring failure handling".

> ### Forcing a release

Reviewer 2: We shouldn't expect users to read the whole document. At least link to that use case then.

> ### Forcing a release

Author: I have clarified that it forces the release through without requiring the user making changes to the spec, which I think indirectly answers the "why".

  For example, `environment = production` or `environment notin (staging)`.

#### Ignore annotation

To exclude certain resources from the comparison, they can be labeled or
annotated with `helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/driftDetection: disabled`. Using
[post-renderers](#post-renderers), this can be applied to any resource
rendered by Helm.

```yaml
spec:
  postRenderers:
    - kustomize:
        patches:
          - target:
              version: v1
              kind: Deployment
              name: my-app
            patch: |
              - op: add
                path: /metadata/annotations/helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io~1driftDetection
                value: disabled
```

**Note:** In many cases, it may be better (and easier) to configure an [ignore
rule](#ignore-rules) to ignore (a portion of) a resource.

### Post renderers

`.spec.postRenderers` is an optional list to provide [post rendering](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/advanced/#post-rendering)
capabilities using the following built-in Kustomize directives:

- [patches](https://kubectl.docs.kubernetes.io/references/kustomize/kustomization/patches/) (`kustomize.patches`)

> - [patchesStrategicMerge](https://kubectl.docs.kubernetes.io/references/kustomize/kustomization/patchesstrategicmerge/) (`kustomize.patchesStrategicMerge`)

Reviewer 3: Both strategic merge and JSON patch have been deprecated and removed from KC. For consistency I think we should do the same here.

Author: I agree they should be deprecated but I will deal with this in a separate PR if I have time, as it is not of highest priority at the moment IMHO.

Author: See https://github.com/fluxcd/helm-controller/pull/832
